Abstract

Global climatic changes and increased carbon footprints provided the main impetus for the decrease in the use of fossil fuels for electricity generation and transportation. Matured manufacturing technologies of solar PV panels and on-shore and off-shore windmills have brought down the cost of generation of electricity using solar energy on par with conventional fossil fuel. Initially, solar was envisioned for microgrids, serving small local communities. However, advancements in power electronics have now facilitated large solar farms to be integrated with main power grids. Effective forecasting models using time-series weather data can be built to predict wind and solar power generation. The forecast is also useful in the planning stages for investment decisions and distribution system planning. In this paper, a simplifed LSTM algorithm built over the architecture of Machine Learning methodology to forecast one day-ahead solar power generation is introduced.


In recent years, exploration and exploitation of renewable energies are turning a new chapter toward the development of energy policy, technology and business ecosystem in all the countries. Distributed energy resources (DERs) are being largely interconnected to electrical power grids. This dispersed and intermittent generational mixes bring technical and economic challenges to the power systems in terms of operations, stability, reliability, interoperability and the policy making. In additional, DERs cause the significant impacts to the operation of traditional centralized generation power plants and the dispatch control centers. Under such circumstances, the accuracy of DERs power forecasting is one of the critical problems for TSO and DSO such as unit commitment, smooth fluctuations, peak load shifting, demand response, etc. In this paper, a simplifed LSTM algorithm built over the architecture of Machine Learning methodology to forecast one day-ahead solar power generation is introduced. Through the machine learning processes of data processing, model testting, cross validation, metrics evaluation and hyperparameters tuning, the result shows that the proposed simplied LSTM model outperform the MLP model. 

Global climatic changes and increased carbon footprints provided the main impetus for the decrease in the use of fossil fuels for electricity generation and transportation. Matured manufacturing technologies of solar PV panels and on-shore and off-shore windmills have brought down the cost of generation of electricity using solar energy on par with conventional fossil fuel. Initially, solar was envisioned for microgrids, serving small local communities. However, advancements in power electronics have now facilitated large solar farms to be integrated with main power grids. In this context, hosting capacity, which is the amount of distributed energy resources a grid can accommodate without significant infrastructure up-gradation, has gained importance. In determining the hosting capacity at a particular location, the uncertainties of wind and solar power generation play a role. Effective forecasting models using time-series weather data can be built to predict wind and solar power generation. This forecast is essential to ensure proper grid operation and control when renewable energy sources are already installed. The forecast is also useful in the planning stages for investment decisions and distribution system planning. While long-term forecasts are rarely needed for the operation of integrated grids, accurate short-term predictive models are necessary for scheduling. This paper presents an extensive review of various forecast models available in the literature. The study mainly focuses on the short-term forecast, providing a critical review of the duration of data used in each model and a synoptic comparison of their performance indices.